# FOCS Homework 10, for Day 11

You may edit your answers into this file, or add a separate file in the same directory.

If you add a separate file, please include the following at the top:

```
Student Name: Joe Sutker
Check one:
[ ] I completed this assignment without assistance or external resources.
[X] I completed this assignment with assistance from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chomsky_normal_form to remind myself what it is
   and/or using these external resources: ___
```

## I. Logic

### 1.

The following tables are [truth tables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Truth_table).

_true_ and _false_ are represented by `T` and `F`. _OR(false, true)_ is commonly written in [infix notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infix_notation): `F OR T`.

The second table shows the value of the function _a OR b_, for all possible values _a_ and _b_. For example, _false OR true_ (the second row) has the value _true_ (the final cell of that row).

_a_ | _b_ | _a_ AND _b_
----|-----|---
 F  |  F  | F
 F  |  T  | F
 T  |  F  | F
 T  |  T  | T

_a_ | _b_ | _a_ OR _b_
----|-----|---
 F  |  F  | F
 F  |  T  | T
 T  |  F  | T
 T  |  T  | T

_a_ | _b_ | _a_ XOR _b_
----|-----|---
 F  |  F  | F
 F  |  T  | T
 T  |  F  | T
 T  |  T  | F

a. Construct the truth table for _a XOR (b XOR a)_.

 _a_ | _b_ | _a_ XOR (_b_ XOR _a_)
----|-----|---
 F  |  F  | F
 F  |  T  | T
 T  |  F  | F
 T  |  T  | T

b. Which function corresponds to the English word "or", as used in "You will eat your meat OR you can't have any pudding" (where _a_ = "You will eat your meat" and _b_ = "you can't have any pudding").

XOR

## II. Questions 2–6 are the same as in-class activities 2-6

### 2.

Consider the following context-free grammar G:

```
E -> E + E | T         # <- added "| T"
T -> T x T | (E) | a
```

Convert G to a PDA.

See pda.png

### 3.

Convert grammar G from (2) to Chomsky Normal Form.

```
S -> ED
E -> ED
D -> PE
P -> +
E -> LQ
Q -> ER
L -> (
R -> )
E -> a
E -> EI
I -> TE
T -> x
```

### 4.

Is the grammar G's language a regular language? If yes, produce a FSA or regular expression for this language. If not, show this. 

In language: a x (a + a x a + a)

We can take a pumping string that overlaps only one of the parentheses, and if it appears more than or less than once, the over all string will be invalid

### 5.

Theorem 1: The language {a^n b^n c^n} is not a context-free language.

a. Use Theorem 1, together with the languages {a^i b^i c^j} and {a^i b^j c^j}, to show that the set of context-free languages is not closed under intersection.

If a word is in both of the proposed languages, then it must be in the language from Theorem 1 because i would be equal to j. Since Theorem 1 says that it isn't a context free language, then the set of context-free languages can't be closed under intersection.

b. Use the pumping lemma for context-free languages [Sipser pp. 125] to prove Theorem 1.

No matter what string you choose, you can't both encompass equal parts as bs and cs AND keep all of each letter together

E.g.: aaabb(bc)cc

### 6.

Consider the context-free grammar G:

```
S -> NP VP
NP -> NP PP
NP -> DET N
VP -> V NP
VP -> VP PP
DET -> a | the
N -> boy | girl | flowers | binoculars
V -> touches | sees
PP -> P NP
P -> in | from | with
```

a. Show that the string "the girl touches the boy with the flower" has two
different leftmost derivations.

You can do `VP -> V NP -> V NP PP` or `VP -> VP PP -> V NP PP` for the applicable section 

b. Describe in English the two different meanings of this sentence.

The girl uses the flower to touch the boy.

The girl touches the boy that is holding the flower.

c. Use G to generate another ambiguous sentence.

The boy sees the girl with the binoculars.

d. Modify G so that it generates strings with adjectives: `the girl saw the tall boy`, `the girl touches the boy with a purple flower`.

```
N -> A N
```

You don't need to know this, but here's how the variable names relate to linguistics.

Variable | meaning
---|---
S | sentence
DET | determiner (article)
N | noun
NP | noun phrase
P | preposition
PP | prepositional phrase
V | verb
VP | verb phrase

[Adapted from Sipser 2.8.]
